while the war in Gaza is casting a
shadow over the Eurovision song contest
which is being held in Sweden this year
Israel's reached the final with a song
performed by Eden Golan she received
claps cheers and some booze when she
took to the stage in Malmo early a
thousands of people protested in the
city against Israel's involvement the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu wished her success saying that
she'd already succeeded against what he
described as an ugly wave of
anti-semitism
well I've been speaking to our
correspondent Sarah reinford about the
security in Malmo there are a lot of
police here and and certainly we've seen
Mounted Police we've seen drones in the
Sky last night there's the occasional
helicopter over overhead as well and a
lot of police on the ground but speaking
to uh police officers here the mood is
pretty relaxed in actual fact you know
there are a lot of them they're
definitely being vigilant uh we know
that the terror threat in Sweden as a
whole is pretty high at the moment but
in terms of policing the protest the
authorities are trying uh to keep this
as calm and as peaceful as possible uh
they have Community uh police officer
they call them the dialogue police here
they are right along the route of any of
the protests and the mood has been
peaceful although the mood of the
protesters themselves is passionate too
they are angry that Israel has been
allowed to take part in EUR Vision this
year at a time when the Israeli military
uh is bombing Gaza at a time of
humanitarian crisis and the slogans and
the Chance are pretty furi curious so
the mood is strong uh the crowds are
growing there were probably uh 10,000 or
so protesters there according to police
yesterday although some quotes and
estimates are a bit higher than that uh
but as I say it has been peaceful it has
been contained all of this is organized
and planned in advance with the
authorities we haven't seen any
spontaneous uh protests of any uh
particular size so I wouldn't say it was
tense here but I would say that there
are plenty of people who want to make
their views heard uh and that view that
uh Eden Golan is Israel should not be at
Eurovision particularly talking about
what they call hypocrisy because of
course Russia has been banned from
Eurovision uh because of the fullscale
invasion of Ukraine and lots of people
at the protest will mention that uh when
they tell you why they've come out to
protest I should just mention as well uh
perhaps Sweden's most famous political
activist was also in the crowd of
protesters yesterday I had a quick chat
to her Greta tumberg uh she told me it
was her moral obligation to speak out uh
she was joining the protest she said uh
because she considers it considered it
inexcusable for Israel to be taking part
in your vision uh whilst the bombing of
Gaza continues and away from of course
the uh headlines around the war just
tell us what we can expect when it comes
to the contest in other
areas well an actual fact the Israeli
performer Eden Golan has been uh
becoming far more popular with the the
audiences uh she's uh climbed up the the
list of favorites uh so so she's pretty
high up now there's also an actor from
Croatia by a band called Baby lasagna uh
who talk something about cows and
something about cats it's pretty
mystifying act uh there is the usual
kind of dizzying array of crazy costumes
Crazy lyrics it is your vision as usual
at the party venue itself at the arena
but as I say here in town it's all about
the protest there are more protests
planned of course now that Israel has
made it to the big Final on Saturday
night and of course we'll have full
coverage from Malmo throughout the day
my colleague Marian maseri will be live
there later